Predictive analytics with hydra (#32)
hydradatabase/docs: guides/predictive-analytics-with-deepnote.md

---
description: >-
  Deepnote is a versatile notebook that revolutionizes analytics and data
  science workflow by seamlessly combining the power of SQL and Python with a
  wide range of data frameworks.
---

> # Predictive analytics with Hydra using Deepnote

Reviewer: Can we make the main title for this "Introduction"?

The focus of this guide is to display the ease of integrating Hydra into [Deepnote](https://deepnote.com/docs) to perform analytics and predictions using Python scripts.

A simple salary dataset was chosen with two columns 'Years of experience' and 'Salary' to make predictions.

## Setup

* Ensure you have the details of your Hydra instance handy by creating a data warehouse in Hydra as shown in the [Setup guide](https://docs.hydra.so/getting-started/setup-guide).
* Sign up for your free instance at [Deepnote](https://deepnote.com/sign-up)

### Building the table with Hydra

1. Sample data from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rsadiq/salary) would be used for this guide. Download the CSV file.
2. Connect to your Hydra database and import the CSV file to the database using the steps for importing a CSV file outlined in the [Documentation](https://docs.hydra.so/centralize-data/load/from-local-csv-file)

### Creating the Connection

Now we can connect the Postgres Database to Deepnote

> 1. Start by [Signing Up](https://deepnote.com/sign-up) or Logging in if you already have an account.

Reviewer: Can we de-capitalize "signing up" and "logging in"? Thanks

> 2. Create a workspace name, in this Demo, it is called Hydra-Team, and choose the data source as PostgreSQL as shown in the image below.

Reviewer: Edit to this sentence: Create a workspace name, which will be "Hydra-Team" in this demo. Next, choose the data source as PostgreSQL as shown in the image below.

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/datasource.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Selecting PostreSQL</p></figcaption></figure>

3. Create a new project by clicking on projects at the left panel of the screen

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/create project.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Create a new project</p></figcaption></figure>

> 4. Make an integration to your Hydra data warehouse by integrating PostgreSQL.Retrieve your database credentials from your Hydra dashboard. You will need Hostname, User, Password, and Database.

Reviewer: Edits to the format: Make an integration to your Hydra data warehouse by integrating PostgreSQL.  Retrieve your database credentials from your Hydra dashboard. You will need Hostname, User, Password, and Database.

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/Integrating postgres.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Adding integrations</p></figcaption></figure>

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/connecting postgres.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Inputing your Hydra credentials</p></figcaption></figure>

> 5. Once that is connected you can be able to view the tables in your data warehouse in Deepnote and run SQL queries on the salary table that has been imported earlier as shown below using the SELECT statement on the salary table

Reviewer: Once that is connected, you can view the tables from your data warehouse in Deepnote and run SQL queries on the salary table that has been imported earlier. The following demonstrates how to use the SELECT statement on the salary table 

This section seems to drop off a bit. Is there an additional action or detail to be added here?

Author: I do not think so. I have edited it to 'After establishing the connection, you can view the imported salary table within Deepnote.
Using the SELECT statement, you can run SQL queries on the salary table, enabling you to retrieve and analyze specific data from the table.
'..hopefully, this is more explanatory?

```sql
SELECT * FROM public.salary LIMIT 100
```

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/Hydra dashboard.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Deepnotes dashboard after connection</p></figcaption></figure>

6. To access the table using Python scripts, an engine has to be created with the data warehouse credentials

```python
import pandas as pd
from sqlalchemy import create_engine
#user = username
#pass = password
#server = hostname
#database = database-name
engine = create_engine('postgresql://user:pass@server:5432/database')
#table_name = Salary
#database = public
data = pd.read_sql_table('table_name',con= engine, schema= 'database')
```

**Congratulations!** You've successfully connected Hydra with Deepnote! What next?

## Making the predictions

> Now that the Database is connected we can use Python and SQL scripts to access the data. We can now predict the Salary data using the Linear Regression model.&#x20;

Reviewer: Might be nice to add a detail about the image below. Is this the linear regression model specifically?

Author: Yes, it is..edited to 'Now that the Database is connected we can use Python and SQL scripts to access the data. Using the Linear Regression model, we can predict the salary data.
The necessary models and libraries are being imported. The linear regression model and matplotlib for our visualization are imported as shown below

```python
#import Classes and lib needed
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
```

The dataset is split into dependent and independent variables(X, Y) and the model is fitted on the dataset, and prediction on the salary table  is made\

```python
#defining variables X and Y
X = data.iloc[:,0].values.reshape(-1,1)
print(X)
Y = data.iloc[:,1].values.reshape(-1,1)
print(Y)
```

```python
#creating a Linear Regression model for prediction
model = LinearRegression()

#Fitting the model on the Dataset
model.fit(X,Y)

Y_pred = model.predict(X)  # make predictions
```

Visualizations are made on the actual salary and the predicted to view the difference.

```python
Y_pred = Y_pred.reshape(-1)
difference = pd.DataFrame({'Real' : data. salary, 'Predicted': Y_pred, })
print(difference)
```

```python
graph = difference.head(10)
graph.plot(kind='bar')
plt.title('Actual vs Predicted')
plt.ylabel('salary')
```

<figure><img src="../../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/Output.png" alt="" width="464"><figcaption><p>Visuslisation</p></figcaption></figure>

> You have now made your first prediction with Hydra using Deepnote!

Reviewer: Can we add what could be some next actions now that we have this? You first prediction is made and can help you xyz.

---
description: >-
  Deepnote is a versatile notebook that revolutionizes analytics and data
  science workflow by seamlessly combining the power of SQL and Python with a
  wide range of data frameworks.
---

# Introduction

> The focus of this guide is to display the ease of integrating Hydra into [Deepnote](https://deepnote.com/docs) to perform analytics and predictions using Python scripts.

Reviewer: The focus of this guide is to display the ease of integrating Hydra into [Deepnote](https://deepnote.com/docs) to perform analytics using Python scripts which can be used to anticipate customer behavior, improve operational efficiency and enhance your business decisions.

> A simple salary dataset was chosen with two columns 'Years of experience' and 'Salary' to make predictions.

Reviewer: To cater to a broad audience, the data and KPIs were chosen to be as agnostic as possible. We will leverage a simple salary dataset on Kaggle (add link) with two columns:

- 'Years of experience'
- 'Salary'

Your datasets will likely differ in scope and complexity, but this will hopefully serve as a general tutorial on how to leverage your data with Hydra & Deepnote for predictive analytics.

## Setup

> * Ensure you have the details of your Hydra instance handy by creating a data warehouse in Hydra as shown in the [Setup guide](https://docs.hydra.so/getting-started/setup-guide).

Reviewer: Ensure you have your Hydra login details handy or follow the [Setup guide](https://docs.hydra.so/getting-started/setup-guide) to create your initial Hydra data warehouse.

* Sign up for your free instance at [Deepnote](https://deepnote.com/sign-up)

### Building the table with Hydra

1. Sample data from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rsadiq/salary) would be used for this guide. Download the CSV file.
2. Connect to your Hydra database and import the CSV file to the database using the steps for importing a CSV file outlined in the [Documentation](https://docs.hydra.so/centralize-data/load/from-local-csv-file)

### Creating the Connection

Now we can connect the Postgres Database to Deepnote

> 1. Start by [signing Up](https://deepnote.com/sign-up) or logging in if you already have an account.

Reviewer: Now we can connect Deepnote to our sample data in Hydra.

1. Start by [signing up for Deepnote](https://deepnote.com/sign-up) if you haven't done so already.

> 2. Create a workspace name, which will be "Hydra-Team" in this demo. Next, choose the data source as PostgreSQL as shown in the image below.

Reviewer: 2. Within your Deepnote account, create a workspace name. In the case of this tutorial, the workspace name will be "Hydra-Team". 

3. Next, choose 'PostgreSQL' as the data source as shown in the image below.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/datasource.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Selecting PostreSQL</p></figcaption></figure>

> 3. Create a new project by clicking on projects at the left panel of the screen

Reviewer: 4. Create a new project by clicking on '+' under 'Projects' within the left panel of the Deepnote console.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/create project.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Create a new project</p></figcaption></figure>

> 4.  Make an integration to your Hydra data warehouse by integrating PostgreSQL. Retrieve your database credentials from your Hydra dashboard. You will need Hostname, User, Password, and Database.

Reviewer: 5. Within your new project, navigate to 'Integrations' on the right panel and choose 'PostgreSQL' (followed by screenshot and space)
6. At the 'Connect to PostgresSQL' popup, add your Hydra database credentials including Hostname, User, Password, and Database (followed by screenshot and space)

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/Integrating postgres.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Adding integrations</p></figcaption></figure>

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/connecting postgres.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Inputing your Hydra credentials</p></figcaption></figure>

> 5. After establishing the connection, you can view the imported salary table within Deepnote.

Reviewer: 7. After establishing the connection, you can view the imported salary table within Deepnote.

Using the SELECT statement, you are able to run SQL queries on the salary table which enables you to retrieve and analyze specific data from the table.

Using the SELECT statement, you can run SQL queries on the salary table, enabling you to retrieve and analyze specific data from the table.

```sql
SELECT * FROM public.salary LIMIT 100
```

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/Hydra dashboard.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Deepnote dashboard after connection</p></figcaption></figure>

> 6. To access the table using Python scripts, an engine has to be created with the data warehouse credentials

Reviewer: Can we add some details about why this will be necessary for the predictions?

```python
import pandas as pd
from sqlalchemy import create_engine
#user = username
#pass = password
#server = hostname
#database = database-name
engine = create_engine('postgresql://user:pass@server:5432/database')
#table_name = Salary
#database = public
data = pd.read_sql_table('table_name',con= engine, schema= 'database')
```

**Congratulations!** You've successfully connected Hydra with Deepnote! What next?

## Making the predictions

> Now that the Database is connected we can use Python and SQL scripts to access the data. Using the Linear Regression model, we can predict the salary data.

Reviewer: Now that we have connected Deepnote to Hydra, we can use Python and SQL scripts to access the data. We will use the Linear Regression model to create predictions leveraging the salary data.

Can you add some details here regarding the Linear Regression Model?

> The necessary models and libraries are being imported.The linear regression model and matplotlib for our visualization are imported as shown below&#x20;

Reviewer: Add space between sentences

```python
#import Classes and lib needed
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
```

> The dataset is split into dependent and independent variables(X, Y),the model is trained on the dataset, and prediction on the salary table  is made.

Reviewer: Can you expand a bit here to give more details on this approach?

```python
#defining variables X and Y
X = data.iloc[:,0].values.reshape(-1,1)
print(X)
Y = data.iloc[:,1].values.reshape(-1,1)
print(Y)
```

```python
#creating a Linear Regression model for prediction
model = LinearRegression()

#Fitting the model on the Dataset
model.fit(X,Y)

Y_pred = model.predict(X)  # make predictions
```

> Visualizations are made on the actual salary and the predicted to view the difference.

Reviewer: Visualizations are created to show the difference between the actual salary versus the predicted salary.

```python
Y_pred = Y_pred.reshape(-1)
difference = pd.DataFrame({'Real' : data. salary, 'Predicted': Y_pred, })
print(difference)
```

```python
graph = difference.head(10)
graph.plot(kind='bar')
plt.title('Actual vs Predicted')
plt.ylabel('salary')
```

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/Output.png" alt="" width="464"><figcaption><p>Visualization</p></figcaption></figure>

> Your first prediction is made and you can determine the range of a person's salary from years of experience.

Reviewer: Your first prediction is complete! You can determine the range of a person's salary based on years of experience.

Section - Conclusion
At this point, we have performed a basic predictive analytics project by integrating the Hydra database with Deepnote. This basic guide can be leveraged to experiment with your own business metrics, but don't hesitate to reach out for more advance support through the Hydra #experts channel in Discord.

---
description: >-
  Deepnote is a versatile notebook that revolutionizes analytics and data
  science workflow by seamlessly combining the power of SQL and Python with a
  wide range of data frameworks.
---

# Introduction

The focus of this guide is to display the ease of integrating Hydra into [Deepnote](https://deepnote.com/docs) to perform predictive analytics using Python scripts which can be used to anticipate customer behavior, improve operational efficiency and enhance your business decisions.

To cater to a broad audience, the data and KPIs were chosen to be as agnostic as possible. We will leverage a simple salary dataset on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rsadiq/salary) with two columns:

>   * 'Years of experience'
>   * 'Salary'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Years of experience
  * Salary
```

Your datasets will likely differ in scope and complexity, but this will hopefully serve as a general tutorial on how to leverage your data with Hydra & Deepnote for predictive analytics.

## Setup

> * Ensure you have your Hydra login details handy or follow the [Setup guide](https://docs.hydra.so/getting-started/setup-guide) to create your initial Hydra data warehouse.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Ensure you have your Hydra login details handy or follow the [setup guide](https://docs.hydra.so/getting-started/setup-guide) to create your initial Hydra data warehouse.
```

> * Sign up for your free instance at [Deepnote](https://deepnote.com/sign-up)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Sign up for a free instance at Deepnote](https://deepnote.com/sign-up).
```

### Building the table with Hydra

> 1. Sample data from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rsadiq/salary) would be used for this guide. Download the CSV file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Sample data from Kaggle will be used for this guide. [Download the CSV file](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rsadiq/salary) from their website.
```

> 2. Connect to your Hydra database and import the CSV file to the database using the steps for importing a CSV file outlined in the [Documentation](https://docs.hydra.so/centralize-data/load/from-local-csv-file)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Connect to your Hydra database and import the CSV file to the database. To do so, [follow the documentation for importing a CSV file](https://docs.hydra.so/centralize-data/load/from-local-csv-file).
```

You might want to suggest a schema (`CREATE TABLE` statement) here.

### Creating the Connection

Now we can connect Deepnote to our sample data in Hydra.

> 1. Start by [signing up](https://deepnote.com/sign-up) for Deepnote if you haven't done so already.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Start by [signing up for Deepnote](https://deepnote.com/sign-up) if you haven't done so already.
```

2. Within your Deepnote account, create a workspace name. In the case of this tutorial, the workspace name will be "Hydra-Team".

> 3. Next, choose 'PostgreSQL' as the data source as shown in the image below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Next, choose "PostgreSQL" as the data source as shown in the image below.
```

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/datasource.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Choosing Datasource</p></figcaption></figure>

> 4. Create a new project by clicking on '+' under 'Projects' within the left panel of the Deepnote console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Create a new project by clicking on "+" under "Projects" within the left panel of the Deepnote console.
```

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/create project.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Creating project</p></figcaption></figure>

> 5. Within your new project, navigate to 'Integrations' on the right panel and choose 'PostgreSQL'.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Within your new project, navigate to "Integrations" on the right panel and choose "PostgreSQL".
```

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/Integrating postgres.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

> 6. At the 'Connect to PostgresSQL' popup, add your Hydra database credentials including Hostname, User, Password, and Database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. In the "Connect to PostgresSQL"' pop-up, add your Hydra database credentials including hostname, user, password, and database. You can obtain these credentials from the [Hydra dashboard](https://dashboard.hydra.so/).
```

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/connecting postgres.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Connecting PostgreSQL</p></figcaption></figure>

7. After establishing the connection, you can view the imported salary table within Deepnote.

> Using the SELECT statement, you are able to run SQL queries on the salary table which enables you to retrieve and analyze specific data from the table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using a SELECT statement, you can run SQL queries on the salary table which enables you to retrieve and analyze specific data from the table. Let's run a simple query to make sure everything is working like we expect:
```

```sql
SELECT * FROM public.salary LIMIT 100
```

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/deepnote dashboard.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Deepnote dashboard showing the salary table</p></figcaption></figure>

> 8. To access the table using Python scripts because predictions can not be done using SQL, an engine has to be created with the data warehouse credentials:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. To access the table using Python scripts because predictions can not be done using SQL, an engine has to be created with the data warehouse credentials. Replace the credential, table name, and schema as appropriate in the example script below:
```

```python
import pandas as pd
from sqlalchemy import create_engine

> #user = username
> #pass = password
> #server = hostname
> #database = database-name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

engine = create_engine('postgresql://user:pass@server:5432/database')
data = pd.read_sql_table('Salary',con= engine, schema= 'public')
```

> **Congratulations!** You've successfully connected Hydra with Deepnote! What next?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You've successfully connected Hydra with Deepnote! What's next?
```

```python
#defining variables X and Y
X = data.iloc[:,0].values.reshape(-1,1)
print(X)
Y = data.iloc[:,1].values.reshape(-1,1)
print(Y)
#creating a Linear Regression model for prediction
model = LinearRegression()

#Fitting the model on the Dataset
model.fit(X,Y)

Y_pred = model.predict(X)  # make predictions
```

Now you can create visualizations to show the difference between the actual salary versus the predicted salary:

```python
Y_pred = Y_pred.reshape(-1)
difference = pd.DataFrame({'Real' : data. salary, 'Predicted': Y_pred, })
print(difference)
graph = difference.head(10)
graph.plot(kind='bar')
plt.title('Actual vs Predicted')
plt.ylabel('salary')
```

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/Output.png" alt="" width="464"><figcaption><p>Visualization</p></figcaption></figure>

Your first prediction is complete! You can predict the range of a person's salary based on years of experience.

## Conclusion

> At this point, we have performed a basic predictive analytics project by integrating the Hydra database with Deepnote. This basic guide can be leveraged to experiment with your own business metrics, but don't hesitate to reach out for more advance support through the Hydra #experts channel in Discord.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point, we have performed a basic predictive analytics project by integrating the Hydra database with Deepnote. This basic guide can be leveraged to experiment with your own business metrics, but don't hesitate to reach out for more advance support through the [Hydra #experts channel in Discord](https://discord.com/invite/SQrwnAxtDw).
```

---
description: >-
  Deepnote is a versatile notebook that revolutionizes analytics and data
  science workflow by seamlessly combining the power of SQL and Python with a
  wide range of data frameworks.
---

# Introduction

> The focus of this guide is to display the ease of integrating Hydra into [Deepnote](https://deepnote.com/docs) to perform analytics using Python scripts which can be used to anticipate customer behavior, improve operational efficiency and enhance your business decisions.

Reviewer: One small edit - can we say "to perform predictive analytics"? I think it is important to call out that this is a data science function vs traditional analtyics

## Setup

* Ensure you have your Hydra login details handy or follow the [Setup guide](https://docs.hydra.so/getting-started/setup-guide) to create your initial Hydra data warehouse.

* Sign up for your free instance at [Deepnote](https://deepnote.com/sign-up)

### Building the table with Hydra

1. Sample data from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rsadiq/salary) would be used for this guide. Download the CSV file.
2. Connect to your Hydra database and import the CSV file to the database using the steps for importing a CSV file outlined in the [Documentation](https://docs.hydra.so/centralize-data/load/from-local-csv-file)

### Creating the Connection

Now we can connect Deepnote to our sample data in Hydra.

1. Start by [signing up](https://deepnote.com/sign-up) for Deepnote if you haven't done so already.
2. Within your Deepnote account, create a workspace name. In the case of this tutorial, the workspace name will be "Hydra-Team".
3. Next, choose 'PostgreSQL' as the data source as shown in the image below.

> <figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/datasource.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![](../.gitbook/assets/predictive-analytics/datasource.png)
```

Please convert images to markdown syntax unless you are also providing a caption or there's some other reason to use this markup. Alt text would also be appreciated for accessibility, i.e.:

```suggestion
![alt text goes here](../.gitbook/assets/predictive-analytics/datasource.png)
```

4. Create a new project by clicking on '+' under 'Projects' within the left panel of the Deepnote console.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/create project.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

5. Within your new project, navigate to 'Integrations' on the right panel and choose 'PostgreSQL'.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/Integrating postgres.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

6. At the 'Connect to PostgresSQL' popup, add your Hydra database credentials including Hostname, User, Password, and Database.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/connecting postgres.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

7. After establishing the connection, you can view the imported salary table within Deepnote.

Using the SELECT statement, you are able to run SQL queries on the salary table which enables you to retrieve and analyze specific data from the table.

```sql
SELECT * FROM public.salary LIMIT 100
```

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/Hydra dashboard.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

> 8. To access the table using Python scripts because predictions can not be done using SQL, an engine has to be created with the data warehouse credentials

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. To access the table using Python scripts because predictions can not be done using SQL, an engine has to be created with the data warehouse credentials:
```

However, this is confusing, I don't understand why I am creating this file or where to put it.

Author: A new file is not created, and the connection is done so we can use Python codes(scripts) to access the database on Deepnote instead of SQL, do I need to change anything here?

```python
import pandas as pd
from sqlalchemy import create_engine
#user = username
#pass = password
#server = hostname
#database = database-name
engine = create_engine('postgresql://user:pass@server:5432/database')
#table_name = Salary
#database = public

> data = pd.read_sql_table('table_name',con= engine, schema= 'database')

Reviewer 2: this needs to be cleaned up - either remove the commented-out variables or have the commented-out variables be at most two (`credential` and `table_name`) and then used in the code.

```

**Congratulations!** You've successfully connected Hydra with Deepnote! What next?

## Making the predictions

Now that we have connected Deepnote to Hydra, we can use Python and SQL scripts to access the data. We will use the Linear Regression model to create predictions leveraging the salary data.

> The goal of linear regression model is to find a mathematical relationship or equation that best fits the data and helps us predict salaries based on the other factors.

Reviewer 2: suggest combining these into a single paragraph.

Author: You suggested removing the second paragraph in the earlier comment, do I need to go ahead to combine it or remove it?

> The necessary models and libraries are being imported.

Reviewer 2: this sentence doesn't make sense, possibly could be removed?

> The linear regression model and matplotlib for our visualization are imported as shown below&#x20;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The linear regression model and matplotlib for our visualization are imported as shown below:
```

```python
#import Classes and lib needed
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
```

> The dataset is divided into dependent and independent variables(X, Y), in order for the linear regression model to understand the relationship between the varibles and make predictions.We train the linear regression model using the dataset. During the training process, the model learns from the data by identifying the patterns and relationships between the independent variables (years of experience) and the dependent variable (the salary).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The dataset is divided into dependent (_y_) and independent (_x_) variables in order for the linear regression model to understand the relationship between the variables and make predictions. We train the linear regression model using the dataset. During the training process, the model learns from the data by identifying the patterns and relationships between the independent variables (years of experience) and the dependent variable (the salary).
```

```python
#defining variables X and Y
X = data.iloc[:,0].values.reshape(-1,1)
print(X)
Y = data.iloc[:,1].values.reshape(-1,1)
print(Y)
```

> ```python

Reviewer 2: probably can combine into a single code block?

#creating a Linear Regression model for prediction
model = LinearRegression()

#Fitting the model on the Dataset
model.fit(X,Y)

Y_pred = model.predict(X)  # make predictions
```

> Visualizations are created to show the difference between the actual salary versus the predicted salary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you can create visualizations to show the difference between the actual salary versus the predicted salary:
```

```python
Y_pred = Y_pred.reshape(-1)
difference = pd.DataFrame({'Real' : data. salary, 'Predicted': Y_pred, })
print(difference)
```

```python
graph = difference.head(10)
graph.plot(kind='bar')
plt.title('Actual vs Predicted')
plt.ylabel('salary')
```

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/.predictive-analytics/Output.png" alt="" width="464"><figcaption><p>Visualization</p></figcaption></figure>

> Your first prediction is complete! You can determine the range of a person's salary based on years of experience.

Reviewer: One more small edit - You can predict the range of a person's salary based on years of experience.
